# :notes:Record Shop API:notes:
## Project Overview

Welcome to the Record Shop API! No longer is our Record Shop a place of the past. With our new Record Shop API, we now have a computerised inventory system which can store all albums we have and how many are in stock. It is a Spring Boot application which uses a RESTful API to perform CRUD operations on a PostgreSQL database.

### Project Requirements

As the Record Shop, I want the backend API endpoints to be able to return and interact with album data in the following way:

* List all albums
* Get album by id
* List all albums by a given artist
* List all albums by a given release year
* List all albums by a given genre
* Get album information by album name
* Add new albums into the database
* Update album details
* Delete albums from the database

### Key Features

* **CRUD Operations**: ability to create, read, update, delete albums.
* **Search for a single album**: albums can be searched by id to retrieve the corresponding album.
* **Search by multiple parameters**: albums can be searched by artist name, genre, release year or any combination of the 3 to return a list of albums fitting all of the specified criteria.
* **Swagger documentation**: utilising Spring OpenAPI to document the API usage which can be found at `http://{host_address}/api/v1/album/swagger-ui.html` when running the application.

## Endpoints
### GET /api/v1/album
| Parameter | Required | Type | Description |
|-----------|----------|------|-------------|
| artist | optional | string | Search by artist name |
| genre | optional | string | Search by genre |
| year | optional | integer | Search by release year |

Example: /api/v1/album?year=2007&genre=ROCK&artist=Avenged+Sevenfold

### GET /api/v1/album/{id}

Search for album by album id, where id is a positive integer.

### POST /api/v1/album

Creates a new album entry in the database. Id is auto generated by database.

### PUT /api/v1/album/{id}

Update album by album id, where id is a positive integer.

### DELETE /api/v1/album/{id}

Delete album by album id, where id is a positive integer. 

POST and PUT requests require and will return an album object as the following:

```
{
    "id": 1,
    "albumName": "At Folsom Prison",
    "artistName": "Johnny Cash",
    "releaseYear": 1968,
    "genre": "COUNTRY",
    "stock": 1
}
```

Available genres are:
ROCK, DANCE, PUNK, POP, METAL, BLUES, COUNTRY, RAP, CLASSICAL

## Getting Started

### Installing

Clone this repo using `git clone https://github.com/AbiPetheram/record-shop`

Create an application.properties file in the resources folder within the java folder. 

Create a PostgreSQL database, using pgAdmin for this recommended. The database can be hosted locally or remotely e.g using an AWS RDS PostgreSQL database.

Add the following details to the applications.properties file to set up the application:
```
# Application set up
spring.application.name=record-shop
spring.cache.cache-names=getAllAlbumCache, getAlbumCache
springdoc.show-actuator=true
springdoc.swagger-ui.path=/api/v1/album/swagger-ui.html

# Database set up
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql://{host_address}/{your_database_name}
spring.datasource.username={your_username}
spring.datasource.password={your_password}
spring.jpa.database=POSTGRESQL
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update
```


### Running Program

Program can be run from within an IDE such as Intellij by clicking play.

Alternatively, to run using a docker container, type the following commands in sequence 
``mvn package``
``-t record-shop:1.0 .``
``docker run -p 8080:8080 record-shop:1.0``


